# 3. Major Classes

PyQt API is a large collection of classes and methods. These classes are defined in more than 20 modules. Following are some of the frequently used modules:  

table:omit  

PyQt API contains more than 400 classes. The QObject class is at the top of class hierarchy. It is the base class of all Qt objects. Additionally, QPaintDevice class is the base class for all objects that can be painted.  

QApplication class manages the main settings and control flow of a GUI application. It contains main event loop inside which events generated by window elements and other sources are processed and dispatched. It also handles system-wide and application-wide settings.  

QWidget class, derived from QObject and QPaintDevice classes is the base class for all user interface objects. QDialog and QFrame classes are also derived from QWidget class. They have their own sub-class system.  

Following diagrams depict some important classes in their hierarchy.  

img:omit  

Here is a select list of frequently used widgets:  

下面是选出的常用部件列表：  


|Name|Usage|
|:--:|:---:|
|QLable|Used to display text or image 用来显示文本或者图片|
|QLineEdit|Allows the user to enter one line of text 允许用户输入一行文本|
|QTextEdit|Allows the user to enter multi-line text 允许用户输入多行文本|

A typical GUI based application’s top level window is created by QMainWindow widget object. Some widgets as listed above take their appointed place in this main window, while others are placed in the central widget area using various layout managers.  

The following diagram shows the QMainWindow framework:  

img:omit  

