# 6. Layout Managers 布局管理器
A GUI widget can be placed inside the container window by specifying its absolute coordinates measured in pixels. The coordinates are relative to the dimensions of the window defined by setGeometry() method.  

setGeometry() syntax:  

```python
QWidget.setGeometry(xpos, ypos, width, height)
```

In the following code snippet, the top level window of 300 by 200 pixels dimensions is displayed at position (10, 10) on the monitor.  

在下面的代码片段中，300乘200像素的顶层窗口显示在显示器的(10, 10)位置。  

```python
import sys
from PyQt4 import QtGui


def window():
    app = QtGui.QApplication(sys.argv)
    w = QtGui.QWidget()
    b = QtGui.QPushButton(w)
    b.setText("Hello World!")
    b.move(50,20)
    w.setGeometry(10,10,300,200)
    w.setWindowTitle(“PyQt”)
    w.show()
    sys.exit(app.exec_())


if __name__ == '__main__':
    window()
```

A PushButton widget is added in the window and placed at a position 50 pixels towards right and 20 pixels below the top left position of the window.  

This Absolute Positioning, however, is not suitable because of following reasons:  

- The position of the widget does not change even if the window is resized.
- The appearance may not be uniform on different display devices with different resolutions.
- Modification in the layout is difficult as it may need redesigning the entire form.

img:omit  

PyQt API provides layout classes for more elegant management of positioning of widgets inside the container. The advantages of Layout managers over absolute positioning are:  

- Widgets inside the window are automatically resized.
- Ensures uniform appearance on display devices with different resolutions
- Adding or removing widget dynamically is possible without having to redesign.

QLayout class is the base class from which QBoxLayout, QGridLayout and QFormLayout classes are derived.  

